---
layout: post
title:  "The Sky Is The Limit"
description: In the past, certain fields were a no go area for women. Over time we have seen this change. Today we see women step up, challenge the norm and break some of these societal barriers to show that just like their male counterparts, they are able and also have what it takes to excel in male dominated fields.
date:   2016-12-18
categories: jekyll update
img: development_Kgomotso_Phatsima.jpg
img_cred: Kesego Mmuso
categories: [one, two]
post_cat: "development"
color: 595959
author: Tsaone Mokwatso 
---
In the past, certain fields were a no go area for women. Over time we have seen this change. Today we see women step up, challenge the norm and break some of these societal barriers to show that just like their male counterparts, they are able and also have what it takes to excel in male dominated fields.  Meet the phenomenal Kgomotso Phatsima, a military pilot and a flight safety officer with the Botswana Defence Force. Phatsima has a Masters degree in  Strategic Management from the University of Derby with a focus in Aviation Safety, a  Bachelor of Education (Science) majoring in Mathematics, from University of Botswana, a post graduate certificate in Enterprise Risk Management and a certificate in Finance for Non Finance Managers both from Botswana Accountancy College. In addition to these qualifications, Phatsima is also BQA certified trainer.

This young lady is one of the first women to be enlisted by the Botswana Defence Force. She started off as an officer cadet in April 2009, and then went through a year-long basic military course at the Force Training Establishment. Thereafter, she went to Thebephatshwa Flying Training School for another year of basic flying. When asked to describe her experience, Phatsima had this to say, “It was challenging, beautiful, exciting, and scary at the same time." It’s been seven years now and Phatsima’s career has really grown, something she says is stirred by God’s grace and her passion for flying. 

A lot of us grow up with no clues of what we want to be when we grow up. We are always caught up in between different career choices. Sometimes we are confused and at times we are spoiled for choice to a point where we don’t know what to go for. For this astonishing pilot, that was not the case. She knew what she was going to be from a young age.”I always knew I was going to be a pilot. I grew up in Mmopane; I always saw planes flying over our house so that gave me hope that one day I will get a chance to also fly planes.”  

It has been quite a journey for Phatsima. Just like the rest of us, she has had a fare share of life’s tests. A few downs here and there. Nevertheless, this woman is still holding on tight and not looking back. She takes every day as an opportunity to grow, get better and press on in her profession. When asked about the challenges in her line of work and how she copes this is what she said; “Flying is a very challenging, risky and an exciting profession. You have to be prepared all the time in case situations change, so I make sure that I am on top of my game and prepare in advance for every phase of the flight.”

In her efforts to help, reach out to others and attract young people into her industry, Phatsima has a program called Dare to Dream, which she uses to sensitize, motivate and encourage students to take up aviation careers. “I go around schools hosting motivational talks and encouraging students, especially the girl child, to venture into aviation. I feel that a lot can be done to inspire these kids. I believe that if I managed to fly military planes, they can also do it. Everyone has a role to play; this is me playing my part,” she said. Together with other like-minded colleagues, they are currently in the process of forming Women in Aviation Botswana, a non-profit organization that will focus on empowering girls and help them advance into various aviation fields.  

Passion and the love for her job are what drive Phatsima to be the best and excel in her profession. “I am passionate about what I do. I get to travel around a lot, meet different people and see different places. I love flying, it completes me. I would do it for free if I have to.” She added. According to this phenomenal pilot, for one to make it in her field they need to be passionate, determined, optimistic and very disciplined. In addition, she strongly believes that mentorship is also a critical component and plays a pivotal role. “It’s important for one to have someone they can learn from and go to for guidance. I look up to the first female pilot in Botswana, Sakhile Reiling. She is my mentor, I saw her when I was young and I said to myself that I want to be like her.  I have learnt a lot from her and will continue to do so.”

With industries developing every day and fast growing trends to keep up with, when asked what she does to make sure that she doesn’t get left out. Phatsima mentioned reading and networking as some of the tools she uses. “I read a lot and watch a lot of documentaries; aircraft investigations. I also network with people across the industry.”

As one of first women pilots in the army, Phatsima has big goals as well as dreams for her future. She plans to start a scholarship program to sponsor the girl child to fly more, especially those who come from disadvantaged backgrounds. ”I want to give someone the dream that the BDF gave me….that’s the legacy I want to leave behind,” she said. The story of this woman is a testimony that, if you believe in yourself as well as your dreams, indeed anything is possible. “I still remember my first flight, I vomited all the way and it was horrible. It was not easy to get where I am today. Follow your passion, never give up, believe in yourself, and believe that you are destined for great things. Lastly pray and don’t forget God,” Phatsima concluded.