---
layout: post
title:  "Spelling Bee for Spelling Blues"
description: Social entrepreneurs are change agents in the society. They are individuals with innovative solutions to society’s most pressing issues. Their ability to develop a vision that draws others distinguishes them from many and their creativity, commitment and diligence enable them to inspire confidence in others social problems.
date:   2016-12-18
categories: jekyll update
img: development_Tshepang_Thibedi.jpg
img_description: Tshepang Thibedi of Spelling Bee Botswana | Dressed by LT Peculiar Couture
img_cred: Lame Dilotsotlhe
categories: [one, two]
post_cat: "development"
color: 05C860
author: Tsaone Mokwatso
---
Social entrepreneurs are change agents in the society. They are individuals with innovative solutions to society’s most pressing issues. Their ability to develop a vision that draws others distinguishes them from many and their creativity, commitment and diligence enable them to inspire confidence in others social problems.

One such phenomenal character is Tshepang Chookhwa Thibedi, a 24 year old lady from Shoshong village.  Driven by passion to effect change in the education system, she came up with a project named Spelling Bee in 2012. This is an oral spelling competition adopted from American movie Akeelah and the Bee. Its main objective is to help students to improve their grammar, vocabulary, to pronounce and spell words properly in turn assisting them to speak and write the English language appropriately. When asked what motivated her to come up with this project this is what she said, “I was very poor at spelling as a student  so coming across the movie Akeelah and the Bee inspired me to start the concept in my country. Regardless of me doing my final year in senior at that time, I thought of the young ones still in school and initiated the project for their benefit”.

Spelling Bee Botswana started in the Northwest Region, later on expanded to Kgalagadi District. As it stands, the project is now fully operational in all the regions in the country. “The Ministry of Education and Skills Development has been a great team player. With their support, in 2014 and 2015 we have been able to host award ceremonies to reward students who perform well in our Spelling Bee Competitions. Big winners walked away with laptops, tablets, dictionaries, novels, certificates, medals and trophies”, she said. Regional committees made up of teachers have also been formed to ensure that The Bee continues to grow. In some schools, Spelling Bee clubs have been set up and teachers use them to prepare students for competitions. Also worth noting is that, this year Spelling Bee Botswana collaborated with other countries to found the first ever African Spelling Bee Competition.

Every endeavor has its challenges. As for Spelling Bee Botswana one key hurdle has always been the fact that the Ministry of Education and Skills Development is their major sponsor thus there is an element of overreliance. Moreover, the team has to constantly consult and engage with teachers in various schools and the fact that some of the team members are still in school often makes progress a bit slow.

Passion and purpose keep this amazing lady going. In May 2015 she quit her accountant job to fully focus on running her project.  “I am determined to grow Spelling bee and nothing is going to stop me, it is a decision that I have made and will stick to it, I will not rest until I achieve the picture I have on my mind”, Tshepi emphasized.

Tshepang attributes all her achievements thus fur to God, all the support she has endured wouldn’t have been possible without His intervention.  ‘”I am a Christian , I put God first so that all my success is credited to Him”.  She also pointed out that her parents are also a great inspiration. They have taught her that she has to work hard and achieve her dreams just like they worked hard to accumulate what they have now.” I just love that they taught me to be independent and have contributed immensely to the person I have become”. 
It is not surprising that this lady is also an avid reader, a habit she developed in order to keep herself motivated. She says that she reads a lot of motivational and spiritual books. Her personal favorite is “How to move from where you are to where you want to be” by Jack Canfield. She first read the book when she was in senior school and strongly recommends it as it helped her discover her potential. Esteemed writer, Mr. Saidi Mdala, featured Tshepang in his book titled Know What Matters. “When you are doing something, always give it your best, it doesn’t matter if you get paid to do it or not! Give it all you have because you never know who is watching or listening. Mr Mdala was amazed that I initiated Spelling Bee in Botswana. It didn’t stop there; he offered to mentor me and is still my mentor,” she added.

According to this astonishing young woman The Bee has a promising future. They want every school in the country to take part, have centers in very region and give our students a platform to represent the country in international competitions.  In closing, Tshepi had this to say to women, especially the girl child; “Your destiny is in your walk. Be careful of your steps, you determine your future so start building your legacy now. Let God guide you in all you do.  Life is a theatre, Invite your audience vigilantly for not everyone is healthy enough to have a front row seat in you.”