---
layout: post
title:  "Driven To Ace"
description: When I first realized that there were limited opportunities in Botswana for my area of interest, I decided to use my tennis talent to pursue my studies in the United States of America. I have been playing tennis for 14 years now and having been at number 1 in Botswana for a few years, I was good enough for an American university.
date:   2016-12-18
categories: jekyll update
img: development_Gordon_C_Jones.jpg
img_description:
img_cred: Gordon C Jones
categories: [one, two]
post_cat: "development"
color: D6834F
author: Tsaone Mokwatso
---
When I first realized that there were limited opportunities in Botswana for my area of interest, I decided to use my tennis talent to pursue my studies in the United States of America. I have been playing tennis for 14 years now and having been at number 1 in Botswana for a few years, I was good enough for an American university. My drive was really from the fact that I was just hungry for more than what my country was offering, I wanted to take a risk and challenge myself to becoming who I know I am supposed to be. One would say that it would have been the same in Botswana because I was already attending the University of Botswana, but I was not happy.  My inner core desire was not fulfilled and I was not ready to settle for mediocrity. I was not born to be ‘basic’! I then decided to do everything in my power to make sure that my American dream came to pass. It was very challenging and did not happen overnight. Patience, determination, endurance and perseverance.

I had initially started that process in 2011 hoping that things would be all set by the following year, but I was wrong,  it was the beginning of the survival test. Every aspect of me was tested, but I had to hold on and protect this dream and vision that nobody saw but me. It was tough, I had to find a job that would allow me to pay for the necessary paperwork I needed for the whole process. It got to the point where I had to be my own motivation, I had to believe in myself and push myself because this was what I wanted.

After 2 years, a coach finally made an offer and I accepted it. I knew that was it, that was my way out and I could not let it go. I had a lot of financial problems but I networked a lot and was able to have a team of successful businessmen and women who saw the potential in me and decided to help. After all that was done, I boarded my flight and was off to the land of milk and honey, the land of unlimited opportunities. I arrived in the winter time, so it was very cold. The education system is very different from ours but it was not hard to adjust to. Living here is not all that bad provided you are sure and you know why you are here. I did not come here for the fun and games of college life, I am here to learn and better myself, to do the impossible and make the most of the opportunities that have been presented to me.

Currently I am studying communications at Post University in Waterbury, Connecticut and a member of the women’s tennis team. Playing tennis for a college in America is an honour. However, it is very challenging because we have to learn to balance and do well in both sports and academics so that we do not lose our scholarships. Above everything else, it is an opportunity of fun and endless experience of fun, friends and travel! It is not all fun and games though….. I have a dream of becoming a social entrepreneur especially focusing on youth development and empowerment programs which will enable me to give back and create pathways for business opportunities.

Furthermore, as a woman in sports I hope to get a chance to excel and not be limited. I always wish to propel women to step out of their protective shells and use their unique physique to achieve greatness.

If you have a dream, go after it. If you have a vision that nobody else sees but you, protect that vision because that is who you are. You don’t need approval from anyone because they are just as human as you, so they have no right to stop you from pursuing who you are. Stop asking for permission to be great! If you think about something every day, every night and every morning, listen to it. That is where your destiny is and you are the only one that can make that a reality for yourself. It does not matter where you come from or who your parents are, this is not about anyone but YOU. If you don’t make the effort and put in the work, you will always be where you are and there is no one to blame but you. Nothing is perfect and nothing will always go the way that we want it to but that is not an excuse, nobody successful or great had money to start anything but they had a vision and a dream that they nurtured and developed until it became successful, those people are not any different from you. If they can do it, so can you! NEVER EVER GIVE UP ON YOURSELF OR YOUR DREAMS!